# ICOS Carbon Portal Documentation Hub

Welcome to the ICOS Carbon Portal Documentation Hub! Here, you can find links to
all of our documentation available on
[icos-carbon-portal.github.io](https://icos-carbon-portal.github.io), as well as
some of the other resources we have available.

## About ICOS Carbon Portal

The [Integrated Carbon Observation System (ICOS)](https://www.icos-cp.eu/) is a
European research infrastructure whose mission is to produce standardised,
high-precision and long-term observations and facilitate research to understand
the carbon cycle and to provide necessary information on greenhouse gases.

The ICOS Carbon Portal offers free access to high-quality and standardised
greenhouse gas data, as well as to scientific and educational products and
services. To promote the usage of its available data, ICOS Carbon Portal offers
a range of services towards researchers/scientists, policy makers and the
general public.

## ICOS Fileshare

The [ICOS Fileshare](https://fileshare.icos-cp.eu) is a service based on the
Nextcloud server software, and is a safe and convenient way to store your
ICOS-related documents and data. [View the ICOS Fileshare documentation for more
information.](https://icos-carbon-portal.github.io/fileshare/)

## ICOS Mailing Lists

The [ICOS Mailing Lists service](https://lists.icos-ri.eu) is an easy to use
communication gateway for the ICOS community. [View the ICOS Mailing Lists
documentation for more
information.](https://icos-carbon-portal.github.io/mailing-lists/)

## ICOS Carbon Portal Python Libraries

The ICOS Carbon Portal has released two Python libraries which allow users data
access to the data objects hosted at the [ICOS Carbon
Portal](https://data.icos-cp.eu/). [View the ICOS Carbon Portal Python Libraries
documentation for more
information.](https://icos-carbon-portal.github.io/pylib/)

## ICOS Carbon Portal Jupyter Solutions

The ICOS Carbon Portal provides Virtual Research Environments (VRE) based on
[Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/) for interactive computing and sharing of
computational ideas. Our service is based on the official Jupyter Dockerfile
[jupyter/datascience-notebook](http://jupyter-docker-stacks.readthedocs.io/en/latest/using/selecting.html#jupyter-datascience-notebook)
with kernels for Python, Julia and R available. ICOS Carbon Portal currently
only provides technical support for Python. [View the ICOS Carbon Portal Jupyter
Solutions documentation for more
information.](https://icos-carbon-portal.github.io/jupyter/)